# CL-STRING-MATCH Manual

###### \[in package CL-STRING-MATCH\]
CL-STRING-MATCH String and pattern matching library reference.

## cl-string-match ASDF System Details

- Version: 2017.12.25
- Description: Provides implementations of the standard sub-string search (string
matching) algorithms: brute-force, Boyer-Moore, Rabin-Karp, etc.
- Licence: BSD
- Author: Vityok https://bitbucket.org/vityok
- Homepage: [https://bitbucket.org/vityok/cl-string-match](https://bitbucket.org/vityok/cl-string-match)

## Single pattern search

Looking for a single pattern in a string

- [function] STRING-CONTAINS-BRUTE 

    A Brute-force substring search implementation.
    
    Brute-force substring search requires O(N x M) character compares to
    search for a pattern of length M in a text of length N, in the worst
    case.
    
    Algorithm described in: Chapter 5, p. 760 in
      'Algorithms', Robert Sedgewick and Kevin Wayne. 4th

## Multiple pattern search

Looking for multiple patterns in a string

- [function] SEARCH-AC 

    Looks for patterns that are indexed in the given trie and returns two values:
    start position of the first matching pattern and its index.

## Regular expressions

Parsing and interpreting regular expressions

### Portable RE by Massung

This code was modified to make it portable accross different
Common Lisp implementations. The biggest difference is the regular
expressions parser: the original library used "defparser" facility
that is specific to LispWorks and is not available elsewhere.

Another modification is to rename the "thread" structure with its
"make-thread" constructor into less controversial "re-thread" and
"make-re-thread".

Special thanks to Chun Tian (binghe) <binghe.lisp@gmail.com> for
his defparser-to-yacc function in the ASN.1 library.

It uses the simple non-recursive backtracking implementation from the:
[Regular Expression Matching: the Virtual Machine
Approach](https://swtch.com/~rsc/regexp/regexp2.html) paper by Russ
Cox.

- [class] RE

    Regular expression.

- [class] RE-MATCH

    Matched pattern.

- [macro] WITH-RE (RE PATTERN) &BODY BODY

    Compile pattern if it's not a RE object and execute body.

- [macro] WITH-RE-MATCH (MATCH MATCH-EXPR &KEY NO-MATCH) &BODY BODY

    Intern match symbols to execute a body.

- [function] COMPILE-RE PATTERN

    Create a regular expression from a pattern string.

- [function] MATCH-RE PATTERN S &KEY (START 0) (END (LENGTH S)) (OFFSET 0) EXACT

    Test a pattern re against a string.

- [function] FIND-RE PATTERN S &KEY (START 0) (END (LENGTH S)) (OFFSET 0) ALL

    Find a regexp pattern match somewhere in a string. Run from an offset.

- [function] SPLIT-RE PATTERN S &KEY (START 0) (END (LENGTH S)) (OFFSET 0) ALL COALESCE-SEPS

    Split a string into one or more strings by pattern match.

- [function] REPLACE-RE PATTERN WITH S &KEY (START 0) (END (LENGTH S)) (OFFSET 0) ALL

    Replace patterns found within a string with a new value.

- [generic-function] MATCH-STRING OBJECT

- [generic-function] MATCH-GROUPS OBJECT

- [generic-function] MATCH-POS-START OBJECT

- [generic-function] MATCH-POS-END OBJECT

* * *
###### \[generated by [MGL-PAX](https://github.com/melisgl/mgl-pax)\]
